docs(@clayui/tabs): Unecessary export (#2603)
liferay/clay: next.clayui.com/content/docs/components/tabs.mdx

---
title: "Tabs"
description: "Tabs organize similar content together into individual sections in the same page."
packageNpm: "@clayui/tabs"
sibling: "docs/components/css-tabs.html"
---

import {
    Tabs, TabsDropdown
} from '../../../src/components/clay/Tabs';

<div class="nav-toc-absolute">
<div class="nav-toc">

- [Composing](#composing)
- [API](#api)
  - [Item](#item)
  - [Content](#content)
  - [TabPane](#tabpane)

</div>
</div>

<div class="clay-site-alert alert alert-info">
	Check the <a href="https://liferay.design/lexicon">Lexicon</a> <a href="https://liferay.design/lexicon/core-components/tabs/">Tabs Pattern</a> for a more in-depth look at the motivations and proper usage of this component.
</div>

<div class="clay-site-alert alert alert-warning">
	<strong class="lead">Warning</strong>

> 	Before you get started with this doc, read about <a href="/docs/foundations/composing.html" target="_blank">Clay's fundamentals of composition</a> to move on. The information below is assuming you have read about <a href="/foundations/composing.html" target="_blank">Clay's compositional philosophy</a> and learned about the terms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	Before you get started with this doc, read about <a href="/docs/foundations/composing.html" target="_blank">Clay's fundamentals of composition</a> to move on. The information below is assuming you have read about <a href="/docs/foundations/composing.html" target="_blank">Clay's compositional philosophy</a> and learned about the terms.
```

</div>

<div class="clay-site-alert alert alert-info">
	We recommend that you review the <a href="https://storybook.clayui.com/?path=/story/components-claytabs--default" target="_blank">use cases in the Storybook</a>.
</div>

## Composing

`ClayTabs` is a controlled component, we left this component controlled because the user can use Dropdowns or another control to select a `TabPane` for render. Just creating states to manage it.

For the modern variant of Tabs use the `modern` property. If you need to justify the text inside the `ClayTabs.Item`, use the `justified` property.

Use `ClayTabs.Item` for defining a TabPane's trigger. For using this trigger as an `anchor` element, just define `href` property, otherwise, the trigger will be a `button`. Use `ClayTabs.TabPane` for wrapping the content that will be rendered by TabPane as the following example:

<Tabs />

As a controlled component, Tabs allows you to control the `active` TabPane. Thereby, we can select the active TabPane by a Dropdown menu. For example:

<TabsDropdown />

## API

> #### ClayTabs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### ClayTabs
```

<div>
	[APITable "clay-tabs/src/index.tsx"]
</div>

> #### Item

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Item
```

<div>
	[APITable "clay-tabs/src/Item.tsx"]
</div>

> #### Content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Content
```

<div>
	[APITable "clay-tabs/src/Content.tsx"]
</div>

> #### TabPane

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### TabPane
```

packageNpm: "@clayui/tabs"
packageVersion: "3.0.0"
packageStatus: "Stable"
sibling: "docs/components/css-tabs.html"
---

import {
    Tabs, TabsDropdown
} from '../../../src/components/clay/Tabs';

<div class="nav-toc-absolute">
<div class="nav-toc">

- [Composing](#composing)
- [API](#api)
  - [Item](#item)
  - [Content](#content)
  - [TabPane](#tabpane)

</div>
</div>

<div class="clay-site-alert alert alert-info">
	Check the <a href="https://liferay.design/lexicon">Lexicon</a> <a href="https://liferay.design/lexicon/core-components/tabs/">Tabs Pattern</a> for a more in-depth look at the motivations and proper usage of this component.
</div>

<div class="clay-site-alert alert alert-warning">
	<strong class="lead">Warning</strong>
	Before you get started with this doc, read about <a href="/foundations/composing.html" target="_blank">Clay's fundamentals of composition</a> to move on. The information below is assuming you have read about <a href="/foundations/composing.html" target="_blank">Clay's compositional philosophy</a> and learned about the terms.
</div>

<div class="clay-site-alert alert alert-info">

> 	We recommend that you review the <a href="https://storybook.clayui.com/?path=/story/components-claycard--claycardwithinfo" target="_blank">use cases in the Storybook</a>.

Reviewer 2: I think this is the wrong URL

</div>

## Composing

> `ClayTabs` is a [uncontrolled component](https://reactjs.org/docs/uncontrolled-components.html), we left this component uncontrolled because the user can use Dropdowns or another control to select a `TabPane` for render.

Reviewer 2: I don't think I would consider ClayTabs as "uncontrolled." Uncontrolled is something that internally handles the value and on change. Since we require props like `onClick`, `active`, and `activeIndex` it would really be controlled. We can probably leave this out for the user though since its not important for them to know controlled vs uncontrolled for this type of component. So I think we can remove this portion.

Author: Sorry, I switched the nomenclature in my mind. You're right. It's a controlled component 😅

> For composing a Tab component, use `ClayTabs` component for defining a modern style, described by Lexicon, use `modern` property. If you need to justify the texts inside the `ClayTabs.Item`, use `justified` property.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the modern variant of Tabs use the `modern` property. If you need to justify the text inside the `ClayTabs.Item`, use the `justified` property.
```

Use `ClayTabs.Item` for defining a TabPane's trigger. For using this trigger as an `anchor` element, just define `href` property, otherwise, the trigger will be a `button`. Use `ClayTabs.TabPane` for wrapping the content that will be rendered by TabPane as the following example:

<Tabs />

> As an uncontrolled component, Tabs allows you to control the `active` TabPane. Thereby, we can select the active TabPane by a Dropdown menu. For example:

Reviewer 2: This is still a technically a controlled version since we require the user to interact with `onClick` and `active`

Author: https://github.com/liferay/clay/pull/2603#discussion_r332689573
